---
title: Pulp 2.10.2 Generally Available
author: Sean Myers
tags:
  - release
  - rpm
  - ostree
categories:
  - Releases
---
Pulp 2.10.2 is now Generally Available in the stable repositories:

* [pulp-2-stable](https://repos.fedorapeople.org/pulp/pulp/stable/2/)
* [pulp-stable](https://repos.fedorapeople.org/pulp/pulp/stable/latest/)

This is a critical hotfix addressing a issues that resulted in 2.10.1 being
rolled back. This release also includes all of the bug fixes to Pulp Platform,
the RPM Plugin, and the OSTree plugin originally released with 2.10.1.

All hotfix issues (listed below) are tested and verified as fixed.


## Upgrading

The Pulp stable repositories are included in the pulp repo files:

* <https://repos.fedorapeople.org/repos/pulp/pulp/fedora-pulp.repo> for fedora 23 & 24
* <https://repos.fedorapeople.org/repos/pulp/pulp/rhel-pulp.repo> for RHEL 6 & 7

After enabling the `pulp-2-stable` repository, you'll want to follow the standard
upgrade path with migrations:

```sh
$ sudo systemctl stop httpd pulp_workers pulp_resource_manager pulp_celerybeat
$ sudo yum upgrade
$ sudo -u apache pulp-manage-db
$ sudo systemctl start httpd pulp_workers pulp_resource_manager pulp_celerybeat
```

## Hotfix Issues

This hotfix release addresses errors caused by a merge issue introduced prior to
the release of 2.10.1, tracked [in Redmine](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/2378).

While that fix was being verified, it was discovered that publishing fails on el6,
tracked [in Redmine](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/2387).

## Known Issues

- Upgrading on EL 7.3 can take longer than on other platforms. pulp-selinux package unnecessarily
  runs restorecon on /var/lib/pulp. The duration of upgrade depends on the amount of content in
  that directory.
- As part of fixing the above issue, it was also discovered that upgrading from 2.10.0 can take
  longer than from 2.9.1 and earlier versions. The fix for this issue will be released with 2.10.3.

## Issues Addressed

These issues are fixed in Pulp 2.10.2:

### OSTree Support

* 2237 Published repositories are copied instead of linked
* 2213 Proxy URL for remotes not properly constructed.

### Pulp

* 2344 Streamer PulpHTTPAdapter does not configure the proxy pool manger with certificates resulting in 503s.
* 2328 Repository syncs show all units updated even when there are no changes
* 2287 Cannot get docker v2 repo tags list
* 2278 Remove checksum_type from the srpm and drpm collections
* 2277 Content published using move (instead of copy) causes 404 due to selinux denial.
* 2221 rsync distributor doesn't remove files from remote when rsyncing empty repository with --delete
* 2049 Django RemovedInDjango110Warning in logs for missing TEMPLATES setting
* 1766 Pulp API is incompatible with Django 1.10
* 1392 Misleading nodes quickstart howto

### RPM Support

* 2326 Publishes fail
* 2257 unit test failure: "AppRegistryNotReady: Apps aren't loaded yet."
* 2242 Package signature ID checking is broken when syncing in packages
* 2227 Only first pkglist is synced for erratum even if multiple are present
* 2190 Unit is associated with the repo before it is copied to the final location

View this list [in Redmine](http://bit.ly/2eqCCZe)
