---
title: Pulp 2.12.0 Generally Available
author: Sean Myers
tags:
  - release
  - rpm
  - puppet
  - docker
categories:
  - Releases
---

Pulp 2.12.0 is now Generally Available in the stable repositories:

<https://repos.fedorapeople.org/pulp/pulp/stable/2.12/>

New features for Pulp 2.12 include new features added to the Pulp platform, as well
as the Puppet, RPM, and Docker plugins. Many bug fixes are also included in
the 2.12.0 release.

More information about these new features can be found in the features list below,
as well as in the
[2.12 release notes]( http://docs.pulpproject.org/en/2.12/user-guide/release-notes/2.12.x.html)

Try out the new features, and let us know how they work for you!

Since the release of Release Candidate 2, we've decided to pull the pulp_python
upgrade to version 2.0 from this release, due to usability and documentation
issues that we feel still need to be worked out before that pluginis ready for
release. We'll be including it in a future release. Users currently testing a
pre-release of 2.12.0 (a Beta or Release Candidate) may need to downgrade the
installed versions of the pulp-python packages to 1.1.3-1 as a result.

These are the current stable packages for the pulp_python plugin as of Pulp 2.12.0:

- pulp-python-admin-extensions-1.1.3-1
- pulp-python-plugins-1.1.3-1
- python-pulp-python-common-1.1.3-1


## Upgrading

The Pulp 2 stable repositories are included in the pulp repo files:

- [Fedora 24 & 25](https://repos.fedorapeople.org/repos/pulp/pulp/fedora-pulp.repo)
- [RHEL 7](https://repos.fedorapeople.org/repos/pulp/pulp/rhel-pulp.repo)

After enabling the pulp-stable or pulp-2-stable repository, you'll want to follow the standard
upgrade path with migrations:

```sh
$ sudo systemctl stop httpd pulp_workers pulp_resource_manager pulp_celerybeat pulp_streamer goferd
$ sudo yum upgrade
$ sudo -u apache pulp-manage-db
$ sudo systemctl start httpd pulp_workers pulp_resource_manager pulp_celerybeat pulp_streamer goferd
```

The `pulp_streamer` and `goferd` services should be omitted if those services are not installed.


## New Features

### Pulp

- 2525: Failover events should be explicitly logged as such when they: occur
- 2509: Pulp process failure detection and any failover should occur within 30: seconds
- 2186: As a user, pulp-manage-db refuses to run if other pulp processes are running: locally
- 1939: As a user, I would like to be able to profile Pulp: tasks
- 1268: As a user, orphan content delete reports how many units were: deleted

### RPM Support

- 1976: As user, I can have packages sorted in "Packages/$x" directories when: published

### Docker Support

- 2189: As a user, I can update docker_tag units without using: sync

View this list [in Redmine](http://bit.ly/2iMdYpK).


## Issues Addressed

### Pulp

- 2545: pulp-manage-db wait time calculation can end up with many hours of wait: time
- 2264: better error reporting during: import/association
- 1488: Deprecate: nodes
- 1321: Commit message requirements for Pulp contributions are out of date and could be: better
- 103: Document the commit message keywords that will interact with: Redmine

### RPM Support

- 1823: RPMs partially: downloaded

View this list [in Redmine](http://bit.ly/2iMgzjJ).


## el6 Support Reminder

As mentioned in the 2.11.0 release notes, we are no longer supported el6 distributions
after Pulp 2.11. See the release notes for more information:

<http://docs.pulpproject.org/en/2.11/user-guide/release-notes/2.11.x.html#el6-support-changes>
