---
title: "2018 Pulp QE Intern Update #2"
author: Ragavendran Balakrishnan
tags:
  - pulpqe
---

## Journey so Far

The first two weeks of my Red Hat journey was a roller coaster ride with lots of takeaways, which I
have covered in my [first blog](https://pulpproject.org/2018/06/08/pulp_qe_intern_update/). Now,
here I am in the third week of my internship and I have started writing my second blog post on my
experience with Pulp. So buckle in ...

## FIPS

FIPS stands for Federal Information Processing Standards. As the name suggests, it has something to
do with the federal government in the United States (duh!). Basically, it provides a set of standards,
which any machine that wants to be FIPS compliant, has to follow. These standards establish system
security and interoperability.

As one of the core goals of my internship is to install and test Pulp in a FIPS enabled RHEL
machine, I started gathering information on enabling FIPS on VMs. Then I enabled FIPS in a CentOS
machine. Have documented the steps and hiccups that I faced in an internal blog as well. Once I got
it setup in CentOS, I moved on to check the same in a RHEL VM with an "Employee subscription" and
it worked like a charm.

## Running Pulp Smash on FIPS enabled machine

Once I got a FIPS enabled RHEL machine (ran it in a Virtual Machine), the next step was installing
Pulp in it by running an [Ansible Playbook](https://github.com/pulp/pulp-ci). This, however, threw
some unexpected errors and it got resolved by using Pulp 2.17 nightly build. After this, it was time
for me to test, which I carried out by running Pulp-smash against the aforementioned machine. Again
I faced some issues, which took some time for me to figure out that it was happening due to the SSL
connections with the VM. Finally, I decided to run Pulp-smash locally on the VM where Pulp is
installed, and it worked.

The actual testing is done in a "compare and report" fashion, where I had another Pulp-installed-
non-FIPS-RHEL-VM. I made sure, it had all the configurations of its FIPS counterpart (of course
except the FIPS switch being turned off). Then using the power of tmux synchronize panes, I was able
to execute tests simultaneously on the two VMs (one with FIPS enabled and the other without FIPS)
and drew conclusions based on the logs generated by my test runner (Used Pytests for running those
tests). Based on my observations, I even raised a couple of bugs (cheers!!!).

One of the things which helped me in analyzing the issue is using the python debugger, that allowed
me to set breakpoints in the test execution and analyze step by step. some trace of using the
debugger is briefed in the [bug](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/3769), that I raised.

##  Jenkins and Ansible

One of the coolest things that I got to do in these two weeks was learning extensively about the CI
used in the Pulp project. I enrolled myself in the Ansible certification course in Red Hat University
and completed few modules as well. With this knowledge, I was able to write my own
[playbook](https://github.com/ragabala/pulp-ci/tree/fips_installer) that enables FIPS in any VMs. I
also started reading extensively about Jenkins jobs Builder and Yaml files and was able to integrate
my ansible playbooks into jenkins job builders. More information about JJBs is found
[here](https://github.com/pulp/pulp-ci/tree/master/ci/jjb).

I am also continuing with my RHCSA certifications and completed around 5 modules. This has some
pretty good course materials with lots of hands-on exercises. I am learning new things on Linux
each and every day. In the following weeks, I will be writing my own automation scripts for the FIPS
milestone issues. I will also be involved in writing more unittests for Pulp-smash increasing code
coverage. Happy coding times ahead ...
