---
title: Pulp 3.6 is Generally Available!
author: Melanie Corr
tags:
  - announcement
---


The Pulp team is pleased to announce the release of Pulp 3.6.

This release contains a number of bug fixes as well as major enhancements to improve security and usability. If you are upgrading to Pulp 3.6, ensure that you pay particular attention to the **Installer HTTP -> HTTPS** and **Schema and Bindings Changes** sections.

## Installer HTTP -> HTTPS

This release introduces SSL to ensure the security of Pulp requests. As part of upgrading to using HTTPS, you must complete one of the following actions:

1. Have the Pulp Installer generate a CA certificate, create an SSL certificate that is signed by that CA, and configure the web server with that certificate.
2. Provide an SSL certificate and have the Pulp Installer configure the web server to use that certificate.
3. Use a role to request a LetsEncrypt SSL certificate or some other ACME protocol-compatible service. The installer can then configure the web server to use that SSL certificate.


## Schema and Bindings Changes

In 3.6, our REST API schema was updated from OpenAPI v2 to OpenAPI v3. This change was needed to fix a bug where `write_only` fields were not being handled properly in the schema and bindings. This will potentially affect bindings' users because some method parameters may change especially for endpoints that involve file parameters.

The Upload update() method now accepts the content_range as the first parameter and upload_href as the second.

## Repository Remote Association

A Remote can now be set on a Repository. This link provides a way to automatically sync from a Remote without having to specify which Remote you want to sync from when you sync.

```
http PATCH $BASE_ADDR$REPO_HREF remote=$REMOTE_HREF
http POST $BASE_ADDR$REPO_HREF'sync/'
```

## Default download_concurrency Value Changed from 20 to 10

Pulp 3’s default value for `download_concurrency` was `20`. This was found to put an undue burden on the server the remote is retrieving content from. As a result of some [concurrency testing](https://pulpproject.org/2020/07/31/concurrency-testing/), the default value has been adjusted to `10`. You can adjust this to suit your own deployment.

## Importing Split Files

Import functionality has been improved to better handle the import of split files using the new table of contents (TOC) file for exports and  `toc=` parameter for imports.

Using the new `toc=` parameter, the import API now finds and validates the checksums of any `chunk_files`, and reassembles them into a single .tar.gz file.

For more information see, [Pulp Import/Export](https://docs.pulpproject.org/workflows/import-export.html) documentation.

## Plugin Writers -- Role Based Access Control (RBAC)

While not available for users yet, significant role based access machinery was added in 3.6 for plugin writers to enable RBAC with. See [the new plugin writer docs](https://docs.pulpproject.org/plugins/plugin-writer/concepts/index.html#role-based-access-control) and Plugin API changelog for more details.
