---
title: Pulp 3.12.0 is Generally Available!
author: Melanie Corr
tags:
  - announcement
---

Let's take a look at the main updates and enhancements as part of this release.

This release also includes a plethora of bugfixes as well as some nice enhancements to Pulpcore and the Plugin API. For a full overview of changes, check out the [changlog](https://docs.pulpproject.org/pulpcore/changes.html).

## Support added for automatic publishing and distributing [#7626](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/7626)

Functionality has been added to Pulpcore so that when the content of a repository is updated, the repository can be automatically published and redistributed. This feature paves the way for future content plugin releases to add support for automatically publishing or distributing the new repository version after it has been created. Check the release notes of upcoming content plugins to see when this feature becomes supported. 

## New Checksum validation steps

Pulp can prohibit or allow checksums by setting the `ALLOWED_CONTENT_CHECKSUMS` setting.

As part of this release, a number of validation steps have been added to help to ensure that you can debug and manage content checksums that are synched as part of the on-demand sync process.

New documenation has been also added for the [ALLOWED_CONTENT_CHECKSUMS setting](https://docs.pulpproject.org/pulpcore/en/master/nightly/settings.html#allowed-content-checksums).

A new warning has been added to the on-demand sync process to check if remote artifacts are detected with checksums that do not correspond with the `ALLOWED_CONTENT_CHECKSUMS`. [#7985](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/7985)

During a sync of on-demand content, a new check is performed and throws an error if forbidden checksums are detected. [#8423](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/8423)

As part of [#7989](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/7989) more enhancements updates were made to handle the exception that gets raised on the client side.

## Increased flexibility with deleting repository versions [#8454](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/8454)

With this release, it is now possible to delete the original repository version (`RepoVersion 0`). As long as you have more than one repository version, you can now delete `RepoVersion 0`.

## Breaking changes and behavior changes

### PulpExporter: Update and Delete become asynchronous [#7438](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/7438)

The Update and Delete endpoints of `PulpExporter` have been changed to become asynchronous. This change provides proper locking on resources.

Note that this is a breaking change.

### Deprecation warnings added to log level WARNING. [#8499 ](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/8499)

In previous versions of Pulp, no one could see deprecation warnings for features. With this release, if the log level is set to `WARNING`, you'll now find deprecation warnings included in your logs.

You can disable this by adjusting the log level of `pulpcore.deprecation`.

## Updates to the Plugin API

This release includes the following updates to the Plugin API.

### New callback method for autopublishing [#7626](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/7626)

A new callback method ``on_new_version()`` has been added to ``Repository``. This runs when a new repository version has been created. The addition of this method paves the way for future plugin releases to add support for automatically publishing or distributing the new repository version after it has been created.

### New logging options for ``DigestValidationError`` and ``SizeValidationError`` [#8357](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/8357)

A `url` option has been added as a possible argument to ``DigestValidationError`` and ``SizeValidationError`` exceptions, so that you can better locate the url of the requested files.

### A new Distribution MasterModel [#8384](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/8384)

This release provides a new MasterModel `pulpcore.plugin.models.Distribution` that replaces the BaseDistribution `pulpcore.plugin.models.BaseDistribution` model.
You will have to define a migration to move your data from `pulpcore.plugin.models.BaseDistribution` to `pulpcore.plugin.models.Distribution`. See the `pulp_file` migration 0009 as a reference example.[#8385](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/8385)

This new model now contains the `repository`, `repository_version`, and `publication` fields that are supposed to move off of the detail models where they are located with `pulpcore.plugin.models.BaseDistribution`.

* A new serializer `pulpcore.plugin.serializer.DistributionSerializer` has been added to use with `pulpcore.plugin.models.Distribution`.
* The viewset `pulpcore.plugin.viewset.DistributionViewSet`  replaces the deprecated `pulpcore.plugin.viewset.BaseDistributionViewSet`.
* The new `pulpcore.plugin.viewset.NewDistributionFilter` filter pairs with the `Distribution` model.

### Object deprecations as part of this change

|BaseDistribution object|Replaced by|
| --- | --- |
|`pulpcore.plugin.models.BaseDistribution` |`pulpcore.plugin.models.Distribution` |
|`pulpcore.plugin.viewset.BaseDistributionViewSet`|`pulpcore.plugin.viewset.DistributionViewSet` |
|`pulpcore.plugin.serializer.BaseDistributionSerializer`|`pulpcore.plugin.serializer.DistributionSerializer`|
|`pulpcore.plugin.serializer.PublicationDistributionSerializer`|`pulpcore.plugin.serializer.DistributionSerializer` |
|`pulpcore.plugin.serializer.RepositoryVersionDistributionSerializer` | Define the `publication` field directly on your detail distribution object.|
|`pulpcore.plugin.viewset.DistributionFilter` |`pulpcore.plugin.viewset.NewDistributionFilter`|


### Checksum type enforcement for downloader

As part of this release, checksum filtering in `Remote.get_downloader` has been removed and checksum type enforcement has been added to BaseDownloader itself.

[#8435](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/8435)

### New Dispatch API [#8496](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/8496)

A new `pulpcore.plugin.tasking.dispatch` endpoint has been added . This replaces the
`pulpcore.plugin.tasking.enqueue_with_reservation` endpoint.

The functionality is the same except for the following:
  * It returns a `pulpcore.plugin.models.Task` instead of an RQ object
  * It does not support the `options` keyword argument

Additionally the `pulpcore.plugin.viewsets.OperationPostponedResponse` has been updated to support both
  the ``dispatch`` and `enqueue_with_reservation` endpoints.


## Removals

Checksum type filtering has been removed from `pulpcore.plugin.models.Remote.get_downloader` and `pulpcore.plugin.stages.DeclarativeArtifact.download`[#8435](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/8435).


## Plugin API Deprecations

The usage of non-JSON serializable types of `args` and `kwargs` to tasks is deprecated. Future releases of pulpcore may discontinue accepting complex argument types. Note, UUID objects are not JSON serializable.

A deprecated warning is logged if a non-JSON serializable is used[#8505](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/8505).

### Tasking object `enqueue_with_reservation` deprecation [#8496](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/8496)

As part of a future move away from RQ, the `pulpcore.plugin.tasking.enqueue_with_reservation` object has been deprecated.
Instead use the `pulpcore.plugin.tasking.dispatch` interface.

__If you have any comments or questions about anything you read here, we'd be happy to hear from you at `pulp-list@redhat.com`.__
