---
title: PUP Purpose and Guidelines
author: Brian Bouterse
created: 13-Feb-2017
status: Active
---

Summary
=======

This proposal provides a structured process to propose, track, discuss, and decide on process
changes for the Pulp project and community.

Motivation
==========

As initially [raised on the pulp-dev list](https://www.redhat.com/archives/pulp-dev/2017-February/msg00014.html),
Pulp lacks a process to propose, track, discuss, and decide on changes that affect the Pulp
community.

This is a problem that has been addressed by many communities. The process outlined in this document
is inspired by processes in the Python, Django, and Foreman communities.


What are these called?
======================

These documents are called Pulp Update Proposals or a "PUP" for short.


Tracking PUPs
=============

An index mimicking [the Python PEP index](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/) tracks all approved,
rejected, and abandoned PUPs.


PUP Process
===========

The overall process is: Pre-proposal -> Authoring -> Announcement ->  Discussion and Feedback ->
Revision -> Voting -> Decision

Most of the process is facilitated using either the pulp-list or pulp-dev mailing lists. The
following guidelines identify how they should.

* For changes impacting users, [pulp-list](https://www.redhat.com/mailman/listinfo/pulp-list) is the
  appropriate place.
* For changes impacting developers, [pulp-dev](https://www.redhat.com/mailman/listinfo/pulp-dev) is
  the appropriate place.


Pre-Proposal
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Discussing an idea via the appropriate mailing list prior to writing a formal PUP is encouraged.
This is intended to save the author time by gathering feedback quickly before writing a concrete,
detailed proposal.


Authoring and Submission
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The PUP is a single file, e.g. `pup-0022.rst` and is formatted using
[markdown syntax](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax). An entry for the PUP should
also be entered into the index file.

Submit the PUP using a pull request againt the [PUP dedicated repo](https://github.com/python/peps).


Announcement
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Once a PUP pull request is created, an announcement should be sent to the appropriate list, which
would include a very brief introduction and a link to the pull request. The announcement must also
include a must-respond-by date and time for voting.


Discussion and Feedback
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

General discussion would occur on the announcement thread on the appropriate mailing list. Threaded
e-mail readers should make this conversation format easy to follow, while keeping the PUP document
in-tact and easy to read. Comments may also be left on the pull request directly.


Revision
^^^^^^^^

Revision occurs as additional commits on the pull request from the author or collaborators. The
commit messages are expected to identify the changes and improvements made. Collaborators may send
additional commits to the pull request either as patches or additional pull requests.


Voting
^^^^^^

The +1, +0, -0, -1 voting process is used; votes are sent as responses via the
announcement/discussion mailing list. The voting has the following meanings:

* +1: "Will benefit the project and should definitely be adopted."
* +0: "Might benefit the project and is acceptable."
* -0: "Might not be the right choice but is acceptable."
* -1: "Not the right choice and should definitely not be adopted." This type of feedback must come
  with a statement of objective concerns explaining what harm will come from adopting the proposal.

Note that votes can come from anyone, not just core devs [#f1]_. This is directly modeled after [the
Django process](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/internals/contributing/bugs-and-features/#how-we-make-decisions)
who modeled their process after the Python and Apache communities.


Deciding
^^^^^^^^

* If an obvious consensus arises via voting, the PUP is ratified.
* Discussion on the email thread can confirm if consensus is obvious or not.
* Votes come from anyone, not just core devs [#f1]_.
* A -1 vote from a core dev [#f1]_ is considered a veto vote and will block ratification until the
  vote is recast.
* Core devs are expected to consider and echo serious feedback from the community, especially any -1
  votes from community members.
* Consensus is not always possible. If obvious consensus is not reached, then the core devs [#f1]_
  decide.


PUP Requirements
================

This is a modified version of [the Foreman template](https://github.com/theforeman/rfcs/blob/master/0000-template.md).

::

    ---
    title: <title goes here>
    author: <author or authors named>
    created: dd-mmm-yyyy
    status: [Active|Approved|Rejected|Abandoned]
    ---

    Summary
    =======

    One paragraph explanation of the PUP.


    Motivation
    ==========

    Why are we doing this? What problem is it designed to solve? What is the expected outcome?


    Detailed Design
    ===============

    This is the bulk of the PUP. Explain the design in enough detail for somebody familiar with the
    project to understand, and for somebody familiar with the codebase to implement. This should get
    into specifics and corner cases and include examples of how the feature is used.


    Drawbacks
    =========

    Why should we not do this?


    Alternatives
    ============

    What other designs have been considered? What is the impact of not doing this?

    Be creative here. Brainstorm with others. No idea is too outlandish to mention. Include ideas
    that are "obviously" bad; even one sentence about why something was ruled out is valuable.


    Unresolved Questions
    ====================

    What parts of the design are still to be determined?


Reaching a Decision
===================

How Long?
^^^^^^^^^

The initial announcement needs to identify a must-respond-by date and time. This should be no less
than 12 calendar days from the initial announcement. Longer periods are also OK, and can be
adjusted via the list based on feedback via the list.


Why Approve/Reject This Way?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* It treats community decision making (not just core dev [#f1]_ decision making) as a first class
  principle.
* The same process works for the best communities we know of (Django, Python, Apache, etc).
* It allows people to be as involved or not as they desire.
* It allows serious concerns to not be dismissed due to a -1 vote from core dev [#f1]_ being a veto.


Approval
^^^^^^^^

* The pull request is merged, which introduces the PUP file and the entry into the index in the
  approved section.
* A post-approval announcement must be sent in a new thread, not the discussion thread, on the
  appropriate email list. It must include a link to the approved PUP text. A new thread is used
  because many users will tune-out on a thread that receives many replies.


Rejected or Abandoned PUPs
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* The PUP pull request is merged, but the entry in the index file lists the PUP in the rejected or
  abandoned section.
* The proposal text stays committed and is not removed.


Is This Replacing Story Planning in Redmine?
============================================

No. This is for process changes and should not be used to discuss Pulp's feature set or bugs.
Feature and bug discussion should continue to occur as-is (on
[pulp.plan.io](https://pulp.plan.io/)).

This is different than the communities we are modeling our the PUP process after. Other communities
use it for feature planning also, but current we only use it for process changes.


Examples
========

* This proposal
* All the PEPs in both [web](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/) and
  [raw](https://github.com/python/peps) form.


Drawbacks
=========

* The history is in two places: the commit history and separately the mailing list archive.
* Mailing lists can be hard to follow.


Alternatives
============

We could store the PUPs in Redmine. Why aren't we using Redmine?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Upsides:

* It would keep every comment and the PUP itself on one webpage.
* It would be kept along with bugs and stories

Downsides:

* Redmine isn't great for long, structured documents. For instance linking between sections is hard.
* Redmine's long conversations become difficult to read
* Comments don't support threading well.
* History of Redmine edits is not as clear as a git commit history.


Footnotes
=========

.. [#f1] A core dev is anyone with the permission to commit to the [platform repo](https://github.com/pulp/pulp/).
